David Oliphant	
Rachel Quistberg
ENGL 1010
10/19/2016

Growing Up with Spirited Away
The movie Spirited Away is a Studio Ghibli film about a girl named Chihiro who stumbles into the spirit realm, is taken away from her parents, and is forced to work in a magical and prestigious bathhouse. She is forced into many difficult situations but becomes much more able to deal with them as the movie progresses. At the heart this movie, it is about exploring the journey Chihiro takes about growing up and taking on responsibilities. It is about seeing a girl face ‘the real world’ even if this case it's the spirit world. This is part of what makes Spirited Away such a successful movie. Parents can relate to watching someone grow up in a harsh environment, while kids watching the movie are facing the same challenges in their own life. The film accomplishes this connection with such a fundamental part of life in many ways. The movie shows her progression step by step from being deathly afraid of moving all the way to standing up to Yubaba, the owner of the bathhouse, and demanding to be let home. We follow Chihiro very closely and the camera almost never leaves her side to allow the viewer to more closely relate with the main character. The movie also employs a hero’s journey format but also tweaks it to make the story a more general example of growing up. These methods allow the movie to connect with its audience on a much deeper and memorable level.
The movie exemplifies her progress by testing Chihiro in many ways and showing how she reacts to each challenge, then she is given a similar challenge later in the movie and performs much better. At first she is deathly afraid of moving to a new town. By the end of the movie she laughs at such an easy transition. While this seems to be one of the overarching challenges there are many more smaller challenges to show her progress. When she first meets Yubaba she can hardly move and at times literally can't move. She looses her name and is forced to be someone she is not. She becomes Sen and loses her identity. Finding your own identity is a huge part of growing up. By taking it away Chihiro/Sen is forced to decide for herself who she is. After she has matured she is returned her name and has earned it. She has found herself by herself and she wields her name like a super power, and uses it to earn her trip home. 
	
